# Description of rsmcompare config file.

This file determines the main configuration for the comparison. The file must be in .json format.

## Required fields:

`experiment_id_old`: ID for your "baseline" experiment. The results for this experiment will be listed first. The ID should match the ID used when generating the original model files. 

`experiment_id_new`: ID for your new experiment (e.g. the model after adding a new feature).The ID should match the ID used when generating the original model files. 

`experiment_dir_old`: the directory with the results for your "baseline" experiment. This directory is generated by `rsmtool` and should contain subdirectories `output` and `figure`.

`experiment_dir_new`: the directory with the results for your "new" experiment.  This directory is generated by `rsmtool` and should contain subdirectories `output` and `figure`.

`description_old`: A brief description of the baseline experiment. The description can contain spaces and punctuation.

`description_new`: A brief description of the new experiment. The description can contain spaces and punctuation.


## Optional fields:

`use_scaled_predictions_old`: `true` if the baseline experiment used scaled machine scores for its evaluations (confusion matrices, score distribution, per-prompt evaluation).
Default: `false`

`use_scaled_predictions_new`: `true` if the new experiment used scaled machine scores for its evaluations (confusion matrices, score distribution, per-prompt evaluation).
Default: `false`

### Subgroup analysis

`subgroups`: a list of grouping variables for generating analyses by prompt or subgroup analyses. For example, `"prompt, gender, native_language, test_country"`. Note that to use this option you should also request subgroup analyses when running each of the models. 
Default: no subgroup analysis 

### Report generation

`general_sections`: a list of general sections to be included into the final report. 
See [report_sections](report_sections.md) for the list of available sections available for `rsmcompare`.
Default: all sections available for `rsmcompare`.

`special_sections`: a list of special sections to be included into the final report. These are the sections available to all local users via `rsmextra` package. See the documentation to `rsmextra` for the list of available sections.
Default: no special sections.

`custom_sections`: a list of custom user-defined sections (`.ipynb` files) to be included into the final report. These are the notebooks created by the user. Note that the list must contains paths to the `.ipynb` files, either absolute or relative to the config file. These notebooks have access to all of the information as described [new_notebooks](new_notebooks.md).
Default: no custom sections. 

`section_order`: a list containing the order in which the sections in the report should be generated. Note that 'section_order' must list: (a) either *all* of appropriate general sections appropriate for `rsmtool`, or a subset specified using 'sections', and (b) *all* sections specified under 'special_sections', and  (c) *all* 'custom_sections' names (file name only, without the path and `.ipynb` extension).


