# rsmtool

`rsmtool` preprocesses the training data (outlier truncation, normalization), builds a scoring models, and generates a report with the description of the model and in-depth evaluation of its performance on the evaluation data. 

Most common use cases:

- Train and evaluate a new scoring model for new data

- Re-train an existing model on new data

- Evaluate the model performance after adding a new feature

- Generate descriptive statistics for feature distributions and correlations

`rsmtool` contains a series of in-built models and also supports all regressors implemented in [SKLL](http://skll.readthedocs.org/en/latest/run_experiment.html#learners)(see [available models](available_models.md) for the full list).


## Input

`rsmtool` requires the following input:

- The data files for training and evaluation sets. The files must be in .csv format. Each row should correspond to a single response and contain numeric feature values extracted for this response. In addition there should be a column with a unique id and a column with human score for each response. The column names are defined in the configuration file. 

- Configuration file in .json format with the description of the data and the model. See [config_file.md](config_file.md) for further information. 

In addition, if you want to use a specific set of features, you need to provide a second `.json` file specifying the list of features. See [feature_file.md](feature_file.md) for further information. 


## Output

`rsmtool` produces three folders with the following content: 

- `figure/`: figures generated by the analyses

- `output/`:  model outputs in .csv format (see [output_csv.md](output_csv.md))

- `report/`:  model report as .html file and .ipnb python notebook. 


## Usage

`rsmtool config_file [output_directory]`

- `config_file` - the path to the configuration file in .json file with the description of the data and model. 

- `output-directory` - the directory where `rsmtool` will save its output. 
Default: current folder

- `--force` - by default, `rsmtool` will raise an Exception if you specify an output directory that already contains a directory called `output`. This is to ensure that an older experiment does not interfere with the current one. However, if you specify this flag, `rsmtool` assumes that you are an advanced user who knows what they are doing and only outputs a warning. 
